Docs Updates (#1230)
solidjs/solid-docs: src/routes/reactivity/signals.mdx

---
title: "Signals"
order: 2
---

Signals are the **primary way to manage state** in a Solid application.  
They store values, notify dependents when those values change, and form the [foundation of reactivity](/reactivity/overview).

You can use signals for any kind of state:  
- simple values (strings, numbers)  
- complex values (objects, arrays)  
- application state (current user, theme, page, etc.)

## What is a Signal?

> A **signal** is a reactive value container.  
> - It holds a value.  
> - It provides a **getter** to read the value.  
> - It provides a **setter** to update the value.  
> - When the value changes, any reactive computations that depend on it are updated automatically.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **signal** is a reactive value container. 
It holds a value and provides a **getter** to read the value and a **setter** to update it.
When the value changes, it automatically triggers updates in any dependent computations.
```

They can be thought of as a **reactive variable**.

## Create a Signal

Use [`createSignal`](/reference/basic-reactivity/create-signal) from `solid-js`:

```tsx
import { createSignal } from "solid-js";

const [count, setCount] = createSignal(0);
//       ^ getter  ^ setter
```

> :::note
> The [getter, setter] syntax uses [array destructuring](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment)().
> :::
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I’m a little skeptical about this. Just a couple of lines above, object destructuring is used, so maybe we can assume users know array destructuring as well? On the other hand, React docs include a similar note, so perhaps it's not that obvious either. Personally, I lean toward removing this note.

Author: It was added because people were commenting about it. I'm going to leave it in, even if it's a bit of "well known", but I get where you're coming form.

## Read a Signal's Value

To read the current value of a signal, simply call the getter function:

```tsx
console.log(count()); // 0
```

## Update a Signal's Value

To update the value of a signal, call the setter function with the new value:

```tsx
setCount(1);
console.log(count()); // 1
```

## Reactivity in Action

Signals are **reactive**: when used inside a tracking scope, they automatically notify dependents when updated.

```tsx
function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = createSignal(0);
  const increment = () => setCount(prev => prev + 1);

  return (
    <div>
      <span>Count: {count()}</span> {/* Updates when `count` changes */}
      <button onClick={increment}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
